<section>
<h2 id="security-considerations">Security Considerations</h2>


This appendix discusses security considerations for UI Events implementations.
The discussion is limited to security issues that arise directly from
implementation of the event model, APIs and events defined in this
specification. Implementations typically support other features like scripting
languages, other APIs and additional events not defined in this document. These
features constitute an unknown factor and are out of scope of this document.
Implementers SHOULD consult the specifications of such features for their
respective security considerations.

Many of the event types defined in this specification are dispatched in response
to user actions. This allows malicious <a>event listeners</a> to gain access to
information users would typically consider confidential, e.g., typos they might
have made when filling out a form, if they reconsider their answer to a multiple
choice question shortly before submitting a form, their typing rate or primary
input mechanism. In the worst case, malicious <a>event listeners</a> could capture all
user interactions and submit them to a third party through means (not defined in
this specification) that are generally available in DOM implementations, such as
the XMLHttpRequest interface.

In DOM implementations that support facilities to load external data, events
like the EVENT{error} event can provide access to sensitive information about
the environment of the computer system or network. An example would be a
malicious HTML document that attempts to embed a resource on the local network
or the localhost on different ports. An embedded <a>DOM application</a> could
then listen for EVENT{error} and EVENT{load} events to determine which other
computers in a network are accessible from the local system or which ports are
open on the system to prepare further attacks.

An implementation of UI Events alone is generally insufficient to perform
attacks of this kind and the security considerations of the facilities that
possibly support such attacks apply. For conformance with this specification,
DOM implementations MAY take reasonable steps to ensure that <a>DOM
applications</a> do not get access to confidential or sensitive information. For
example, they might choose not to dispatch EVENT{load} events to nodes that
attempt to embed resources on the local network.

</section>
